# Quantum Algorithms and Romantic Love: Predicting Satisfaction through Personality and Partner Perceptions
### Micah Tracy and Dr. Ignacio Segovia-Dominguez

This project won first place in the Social and Behavioral Sciences Category in the Fall 2025 WVU Research Symposium. Please see the Quantum_Computing___Relationships.pdf file for the full report and references.

## Abstract
Quantum computing is a technology based on quantum mechanics, which studies the behavior of subatomic particles. In recent years, there has been a bipartisan push in the U.S. Senate for the advancement of quantum technologies. While there is still substantial progress to be made, particularly in creating fault-tolerant quantum computers, quantum computing shows promise over classical computing in certain complex problems, especially when it comes to fast computation. Quantum computing can identify patterns within data that classical computers may miss. For almost every classical computing machine learning algorithm, there is a quantum equivalent, and there are even some algorithms unique to quantum computing. IBM, a leading technology company, offers an open-source quantum software package called Qiskit, which allows users to simulate quantum computers. They also offer limited access to real quantum hardware. The goal of this research is to compare the training time and performance of a quantum classifier and a classical classifier. I used a Support Vector Machine and a Variational Quantum Classifier to predict a person’s relationship satisfaction based on their responses to a survey about their relationship and personality. Although the quantum algorithm did not stand up to the classical algorithm’s performance, it demonstrated a time improvement that will prove to be valuable as the quantum computing field advances. These findings show how quantum machine learning models may be applied to real-world human behavior prediction tasks once quantum hardware improves.
